>> [Background Music]
And I think many people
today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically
going to keep
on to help uncover
what really happened.
>> It felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
[ Music ]
>> George Noory: And welcome
back to the Beyond Belief.
I'm George Noory with our very
special guest, John McAfee,
of course, the developer of
the McAfee antivirus software,
who's branched out into a
number of different areas.
You just don't stop, do you?
You're everywhere.
>> John McAfee: I get in trouble
when I don't keep busy, George.
That's the issue.
>> Noory: Do you get bored fast?
>> McAfee: Very fast, extremely.
That's why I tend to
leave the companies
when they get too large.
I'm no longer doing the things
that interest me
like technology.
>> Noory: You like to develop?
>> McAfee: I love to develop--
>> Noory: And then move on.
>> McAfee: And move on.
I don't like to maintain.
I don't like-- as you
said the board meetings
and the personnel
issues, I leave those
to more capable folks, so.
>> Noory: John, in our previous
show, we talked about your life.
We talked about the
technology and where we are.
But you're a pretty
intuitive guy at the same time
and I think you're
pretty methodical,
and you've been looking at
where we are as a planet
and where we are as people.
And I suspect you still see
some deep-rooted issues here.
>> McAfee: Well, I do.
One of the-- I don't know
whether it's a blessing or a
curse. One
of the issues and being
in the security field is you
have to know human nature.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: If you
don't, you're not going
to build a good security
product.
I mean if you don't know what
motivates thieves or vandals,
there's a question for you.
What motivates them to spend
a lifetime of vandalizing
of artwork or putting
graffiti on subway cars--
>> Noory: Right.
>> McAfee: What motivates them?
>> Noory: Or robbing people--
>> McAfee: Right.
>> Noory: -- or whatever.
>> McAfee: And if you don't know
that human nature is
what causes the holes
in our security networks
like as I talked earlier
about curiosity is one of
the ways that hackers get
into other people's systems.
If you don't know these things,
you don't know what makes
people tick, you better get
out of the security business.
So, I've made a lifelong
study of people
and what motivates them, and
how to predict their behaviors.
That's basically
what it's all about.
>> Noory: I have long suspected
that people are acting
very weird these days,
almost whacked out.
They're unhappy.
They're rude.
There's something going
on, on this planet.
I can't put my finger on it.
I don't know if you found
out-- found the answer to that.
>> McAfee: Well, I don't
know if I found the answer.
I certainly know
one of the factors.
One of the factors is technology
has isolated all of us.
We spoke briefly about how
people are more interested
in their smartphones and in
texting than who's sitting
across them from the table.
And so this exacerbates the
fundamental problem with people
to begin with which is
communicating and relationship.
We have wars because we do
not understand our enemies.
We don't take the time to try to
see the world from their side.
We want them to see the
world from our side.
That's not relationship,
not at all.
That is self-centeredness.
And this has been a problem
since the beginning of time.
If you add to that an
isolation from humanity
through our technology, kids
who spend all day long
doing video games, you know,
working with the images
of cartoon characters
which are getting more and
more real-looking by the way,
rather than going out
and playing football
with the neighborhood, then
the problem has exacerbated.
Human relationship is the
fundamental problem here.
And life really is
nothing but relationship.
It's how we relate to people and
to things, our houses, and cars,
and our technology and ideas
that makes us who we are.
The idea of violence
for something.
What is our relationship
to that?
If you're the average person
like you and I, it's abhorrent
and we want to remove
it from the world.
If you're a gang leader in
LA, violence is a good thing
because you get your
street cred--
>> Noory: Right.
>> McAfee: -- from
being violent.
So, that's one example
of how the relationship
to an idea creates a
completely different thing.
We are nothing but relationships
to the world, to people,
to things and to our ideas.
So, if we don't understand
that and come to terms with it
as we get increasingly isolated,
the world is going to be
in a really sad shape.
>> Noory: Is technology
making it better or worse?
>> McAfee: Making
it worse so far.
It could be making it better.
>> Noory: It should be.
>> McAfee: And it should be.
You know, technology
gives us freedom of--
the freedom of time
which is great.
I mean, do you realize
how hard we had to work
as human entities 500 years ago?
We didn't get weekends off.
We didn't get anytime off.
>> Noory: That's right.
>> McAfee: You worked
from day to night--
>> Noory: What--
>> McAfee: -- just
to feed yourself.
Now look at it.
You know, we have
nothing but leisure time
which we fill with nonsense.
So, it's not helping.
We could however use technology
to free us to be more human,
to have more contact,
to create--
instead of creating video
games, let us create systems
where we can communicate
with people we would not
normally communicate with.
People will hold opposing ideas.
People who have
opposing religions.
People who look different
and think different
and dress differently.
We're afraid of these people now
because we do not
communicate with them.
>> Noory: And they don't want
to communicate with each other.
They run the other way.
>> McAfee: Because we're as
alien to them as they are to us.
And yet, we have the technology
with-- you can go onto Google
and translate an Arab newspaper.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: Do we do that?
>> McAfee: Very seldom?
>> Noory: No.
>> McAfee: So, we
have the technology
to make understanding
much easier.
And instead, we take that
technology and we do fun
and games with it, rather
than solve the fundamental
problems of humanity.
>> Noory: Social
networking, a plus or a minus?
>> McAfee: Well, it could
be a tremendous plus.
The minuses that people who
are on systems like Facebook--
good Lord, the amount
of time that they spend.
No, seriously.
Hours a day--
>> Noory: They do.
>> McAfee: -- thinking that
they now know someone or they--
I have 1,100
friends on Facebook.
>> Noory: And it
started with kids
but adults are doing it now.
>> McAfee: Adults
are doing it now.
So, that's not a friend.
You haven't made a friend
because someone clicks a button.
>> Noory: And who cares
that so and so is going
to this restaurant tonight.
>> McAfee: Yeah.
>> Noory: Who cares!
>> McAfee: Unless
you're going with them.
>> Noory: They're buying.
>> McAfee: Right, you know,
but no-- nobody cares.
And yet, it seems to be
of utmost importance,
far more important than
sitting down with your family
and discussing the
day's activities--
>> Noory: It's true.
>> McAfee: -- and what happened
and how are you feeling
and do you have problems
at school,
do you feel lonely,
do you have friends.
No, we don't care 'cause
you're on Facebook.
You have plenty of friends.
You have 2,000 friends.
Don't come to me with
friendship problems.
That doesn't make sense.
>> Noory: And John,
they're all doing this.
You know, I've got a
19-year old granddaughter.
So, I asked her things about
technology so I can be hip,
right, hip grandfather.
>> McAfee: Let's
talk about that.
>> Noory: She told me stuff,
she told me about Facebook,
she said, "Papa, MySpace
is no good anymore.
Go to Facebook."
And then she told
me about Twitter.
Now she's telling
me about Instagram.
This other thing
called Snapchat.
It doesn't end.
>> McAfee: No.
>> Noory: It doesn't end.
>> McAfee: Absolutely.
>> Noory: And they're
all using that.
>> McAfee: Yes.
And I fail to see where we
benefit from this vast network
of friends that we
don't even know
because online you can be
anybody that you choose.
>> Noory: Yes.
>> McAfee: It is easy
to be a good person
or a brilliant person.
>> Noory: A bully, whatever.
>> McAfee: Or whatever you want.
But in person, I get to
know you pretty quickly.
>> Noory: That's right.
>> McAfee: Do you do keep
contact with my eyes?
Do you shift away?
You know, are you
articulate or not?
You can't see these
things on Facebook.
>> Noory: No.
>> McAfee: So, I'm not
sure it does us any good.
It could be used for tremendous
good.
>> Noory: And I've
got to tell you,
more fights by text messaging--
>> McAfee: Absolutely.
>> Noory: -- than
anything I've ever seen.
>> McAfee: Yes, and
so-- they're words.
People go, "Oh my God, she
used all capital letters,
you know, don't yell at me."
It's like "Whoa.
Please."
>> Noory: What do
you mean by LOL?
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: That's not funny.
>> McAfee: I know.
So it's like I think we
took a wrong turn somewhere.
And I think because we have--
I'm trying to think of the Greek
play that personifies this.
I mean, maybe it's
stealing fire from the gods.
We weren't ready for
fire when it was stolen--
>> Noory: Sure.
>> McAfee: -- in
that Greek play.
And I don't think we're ready
for what we have created.
>> Noory: On the other
hand, instantaneous news.
I mean, I remember--
>> McAfee: Spectacular.
>> Noory: -- in my
days and your days--
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: -- about the same age?
>> Noory: Kennedy got killed.
We didn't know about it until
you heard the radio break in.
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: Or Cronkite got on.
>> McAfee: Right.
>> Noory: Now, it's instant.
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: It's worldwide.
When Michael Jackson
died, John--
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: -- everybody
knew about it--
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: -- instantly.
That's got some benefits.
>> McAfee: That's
tremendous benefits.
And the secondary
benefit is you don't have
to take anybody's word anymore.
You don't have to take Walter
Cronkite's word even though I
did trust Walter Cronkite.
>> Noory: Uncle Walt,
we all did.
>> McAfee: So, nevertheless, if
Fox News says something, "Well,
I'm going to go to
the local news station that's
got the photographs of it and
see what these photos looks
like."
>> Noory: That's right.
That's right.
>> McAfee: We can check.
We can find and choose
for ourself what is true.
That's terrific.
Do we do it as often
as we should?
>> Noory: No.
>> McAfee: No, we don't.
But we're still relying
on everybody else.
>> Noory: Look at what happened
with the Arab Spring a couple
years ago and it's still ongoing
where social networking
literally can capture the
attention of your population--
>> McAfee: Yes.
Yes.
>> Noory: -- and get
them out in the streets.
>> McAfee: Yes.
So, it does have this power.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: And if we can--
if we can go down that path
and take the things
that are good, not--
good not in the way
of entertaining
because I fear we are
using these powerful tools
for entertainment
rather than for utility.
>> Noory: I think you're right.
I think you're right.
>> McAfee: They have powerful
potential utility but we
as a bored nation or a bored
world prefers to go, "Oh,
this is Facebook. I know what,
we can make it entertaining."
I'm sorry, but what
good is that?
>> Noory: I don't know
why but Edward Snowden,
the NSA whistleblower,
somewhat reminds me of you
because I think that had you
been in that position,
you probably would have
done the same thing he did.
>> McAfee: I would-- but
I would not have ended
up in a Russian airport.
>> Noory: No.
>> McAfee: In fact if I've
gotten as far as Hong Kong
like he did, I would
go great Hong Kong,
a great colorful city,
a lot to do here.
An entrepreneur can
get ahead in Hong Kong.
>> Noory: That's right.
>> McAfee: There's a lot
that I can create here.
I would have stayed there.
Grab some cute Chinese girl
and headed into the back alleys,
got myself an apartment
somewhere and started a new
life.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: And he
was in Hong Kong.
I don't know who
his advisers were,
but I knew the instance he flew
to Russia, he's not leaving.
>> Noory: That was it for him.
>> McAfee: You don't
leave Russia
if you're someone of interest.
>> Noory: Exactly.
>> McAfee: So--
>> Noory: You know, he's
begging for clemency here.
However, I think he's right.
I mean, he had an opportunity
and a reason I think
to go public.
When he saw government
doing something illegal,
he had the right
to say something.
>> McAfee: Even just our
government doing something
legal, keep in mind,
legal when it comes
to the government is
whatever the government--
>> Noory: It wants to do.
>> McAfee: -- chooses
to define, right.
>> Noory: Look at
Belize for example.
>> McAfee: Absolutely.
So-- and all governments do
that because they are powerful
entities and powerful entities
to some extent get corrupt.
This is just a fact.
But yes, I mean, he
did-- I'm glad he did it.
We deserve to know if our
privacy is being violated
by the people that we elect
to create a government.
And government as I see
it is not to spy on us
or to tell us what to
do or to keep us safe.
It's to build roads and schools,
and things that we don't have--
>> Noory: That's right.
>> McAfee: -- the
money to do ourselves.
>> Noory: Protect medicines.
>> McAfee: And do
these sorts of things.
No, it does-- it has less to
do with that than it has to do
with we're going
to make you safe,
we're going to make ourselves
safe and we're going
to make our jobs safe.
And that's what it's
turned into.
>> Noory: That is so true.
Tell me what you think
of big pharma these days?
Because, you know, you
were Belize looking
for some alternative things.
So I think you saw a lot
of things that we've talked
about on a radio show.
>> McAfee: Right.
Well, I haven't said
this before, George.
But one of the reasons I had
such a large security force
there is that I was approached
by pharmaceutical
companies as soon
as I created the
website Quorum X
and explained what
we'd already done.
Well, you know, the big
pharmaceutical companies don't
want anybody inventing
something brand new.
>> Noory: And natural.
>> McAfee: And natural.
>> McAfee: So, I had
representatives from Bayer
and Merck both came and offered
me suitcases full of money
to sell the company to them.
>> Noory: So they
could shut it down?
>> McAfee: So they
could shut it down.
No-- but I didn't say, "So
we could shut it down."
So they could continue--
>> Noory: But we knew what
they were going to do.
>> McAfee: I don't know.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: Who knows what
they were going to do.
But it didn't
interest me very much.
And so then, you know,
I've talked to some people
in the pharmaceutical business
that were close friends
and they said, "You
have to be careful.
You know, you're in a
place where, you know,
if you don't cooperate,
they can force cooperation."
>> Noory: Yeah, that's true.
>> McAfee: So, I--
>> Noory: Who's to say that the
situation in Belize wasn't that?
>> McAfee: You know,
I don't know.
I'd have to cross the
line into theory--
>> Noory: Conspiracy.
>> McAfee: -- conspiracy
theory in order
to make a comment on that.
I don't really know.
>> Noory: Sometimes
where there's smoke,
there's fire, and you know that.
>> McAfee: I understand that.
But where the fire is and who
started is always the question.
>> Noory: You know, our
buddy Alex Jones would say.
Now, John you know
they're after you in--
>> McAfee: Maybe.
I know someone is after
me, that's for sure.
>> Noory: You know, you
were trying to find what?
Some natural--
>> McAfee: Yeah.
We discovered scientifically
about 10 years ago
that bacteria aren't just
simple single-celled organisms
that are mindless entities.
They actually communicate.
They're like ants where
there's a tribe mind.
>> Noory: They know
what they're doing.
>> McAfee: They know
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: Unlike of a--
let's say a flesh-eating
staphylococcus infection.
The bacteria doesn't
get onto your skin
and immediately start
eating you.
If it did, there's only
a few of those cells,
your immune system would
wipe it out instantly.
>> Noory: Good point.
>> McAfee: They wait
until they're a few
trillions of them and a bio--
>> Noory: Then they attack.
>> McAfee: Then they communicate
and say, "How many are we now?"
"Well, almost 10 trillion.
In a few minutes, we're
going to turn pathogenic."
Then instantly, all trillion
of them start eating your flesh.
By then, it's too late.
So, they're smart creatures.
>> Noory: That's
also a good point.
>> McAfee: And so--
>> Noory: They're alive, right?
>> McAfee: They're alive and
short, so-- I heard this and I
go, "Whoa, what an incredible
concept."
So then, I discovered
that plants,
by the way plants have been
in existence for, you know,
a billion years
longer than animals.
And they don't have
the ability to move
and escape their
diseased comrades.
So they have developed extremely
sophisticated immune reactions.
One of those reactions
especially in the jungle
where there's such a
mass-- a huge biomass--
>> Noory: Right.
>> McAfee: -- is a thing called
anti-quorum sensing compounds
that disrupt the ability for
the bacteria to communicate,
meaning they never
turned photogenic.
>> Noory: It's like
a super antibiotic.
>> McAfee: It's like
And the nice thing about it is
it has a no systemic issues.
I mean, it merely disrupts--
it makes them all deaf.
So they think there's never
enough of them around--
>> Noory: And the bacteria
can't outsmart it, right?
>> McAfee: And they
can't outsmart you.
So then, you're not weakened
by this massive response
to being eaten alive
and the immune
system over time just
wipes them all out.
>> Noory: Well, it's
kind of funny, John.
Just last week, they came
out with a report that said,
"We think we're at the end of
developing any new antibiotics."
>> McAfee: Well,
that's nonsense.
>> Noory: No.
Prescription wise.
>> McAfee: Yeah,
prescription wise.
>> Noory: Prescription wise.
>> McAfee: That's
utter, utter nonsense.
So, basically, what I
discovered is a number
of plants had these
anti-quorum sensing compounds
and we had created about
10,000 doses of a topical,
meaning external, antibiotic
which was magical,
truly magical.
>> Noory: Tried it out?
>> McAfee: All that-- we
tried it out on local--
again, it's an external thing so
this-- what can happen to me--
>> Noory: Right.
>> McAfee: -- and it's based on
jungle plants which people eat.
But we had extracted the
anti-quorum sensing compounds
and it was magical.
And about the time
where we're going to go
into clinical trials,
the army came in
and destroyed everything.
>> Noory: Plant is only
available in Belize?
>> McAfee: Only available
in Belize.
>> Noory: You're kidding?
>> McAfee: Nope.
>> Noory: No way to get seeds--
>> McAfee: Only available
on-- along one river.
The river that I was on.
>> Noory: And I bet the soil
has a lot to do with it.
>> McAfee: The soil, the
climate, the-- who knows.
I mean there's such a-- the
interrelationship between animal
and plant species and climate
is so complex and subtle that,
you know, it's very difficult
to point one to thing and say,
"Yes, this is what it is."
>> Noory: What another
brilliant story.
>> McAfee: It was a
tragic story, really.
>> Noory: It is tragic.
>> McAfee: I had to leave all of
that because they destroyed all
of my research, they
destroyed my samples.
>> Noory: How much did you
invest in that if I could ask?
>> McAfee: Way too much,
I'm afraid, George.
>> Noory: OK.
Isn't it amazing that this
planet has the ability
to cure just about every
ailment or disease?
>> McAfee: Bacterial
not viral but--
>> Noory: Right.
>> McAfee: -- any bacterial--
absolutely, whether it's Gram
negative or Gram positive.
The two types of bacteria
wipes them out--
>> Noory: What does that
tell you about the planet?
It's alive.
>> McAfee: It is alive.
And also it tells me that there
are yet an infinite number
of things for us to
discover about this planet.
This planet is just
as mysterious today
as it was before we
learned to read and write.
>> Noory: Do the big pharma
companies know the name
of this plant?
>> McAfee: No, they don't.
>> Noory: They do not.
>> McAfee: They wanted the name.
In fact, they were-- you
know, they were pretty excited
about the possibility of just
taking the whole company.
So maybe they were
going to try and use it.
But I gave up nothing.
>> Noory: Right, right.
>> McAfee: I gave up nothing.
>> Noory: The reason you decided
not to sell to them was what?
>> McAfee: Because I was right
in the middle of having--
I was-- the part that I
enjoy, George, is building.
>> Noory: Is building.
>> McAfee: Discovering.
>> Noory: That's
what you're doing.
>> McAfee: And figuring
out how--
I wanted to make a
systemic version,
a pill that we could pop.
>> Noory: Sure.
>> McAfee: And--
>> Noory: Like they've
done with aspirin.
>> McAfee: Like aspirin.
And that's what I was--
that's was my big thing
and that's what I
was working on.
So I'm not going to about to
sell the big pharmacy when I'm
about to come out with
something I'm really enjoying.
So--
>> Noory: There's no
way to duplicate that?
>> McAfee: -- come
back in five years
when we've grown and
I'm bored --
>> Noory: Yeah.
And then you're ready
to go again.
>> McAfee: Yeah, but they
didn't want to any of that.
>> Noory: Unbelievable,
and then there's now way
to duplicate this?
>> McAfee: I can't.
I don't have access
to the plants.
I can't ever go back to Belize.
>> Noory: What if the
government there changed?
>> McAfee: If it
changed, it's possible.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: It's possible.
But keep in mind like
many two-party systems,
either party is--
>> Noory: They're the same.
>> McAfee: They're
the same thing.
>> Noory: They're the same.
Did you leave behind
a home and--
>> McAfee: Everything I owned.
>> Noory: -- assets like that?
>> McAfee: I left the
country with a pair of shorts.
I borrowed shirts from
friends and shoes and came
to America with nothing.
>> Noory: I don't want to get
too personal but bank accounts?
>> McAfee: All my bank
accounts, my houses--
>> Noory: They seized all that?
>> McAfee:-- everything is gone.
Everything is gone.
>> Noory: My God.
>> McAfee: We live
to learn, don't we?
>> Noory: We do.
>> McAfee: So--
>> McAfee: Here's
what I think, George.
I think that making money is
far easier than people think.
The reason it is
difficult for some people is
because they're doing
things they do not love.
If you don't love what you're
doing, get out of it.
Forget about money.
>> Noory: The plant
story fascinates me.
>> McAfee: Yes.
>> Noory: I'm sure that
when you moved to Belize,
you didn't just say,
"Oh I know this plant
will do this."
>> McAfee: No.
No idea.
>> Noory: Somebody had
to tell you something.
Some native--
>> McAfee: Absolutely.
>> Noory: -- some shaman--
>> Noory: -- something happen.
>> McAfee: Absolutely.
'Cause-- this is where
the wealth of information
with medical information
resides in this world,
it's not with our
modern day doctors.
What we know how to do or
what modern medicine knows how
to do is break down something
into its constituents.
And say, that this may
work or that may work.
But to divide and cut
something up and think
that you've discovered something
is going the wrong way.
You know, we don't know
what really helps a person
from any kind of native plant.
We think all-- well
maybe it's the niacin
in the soil or whatever.
I think it's the totality
of the plant, everything.
And I think it's something
we will never discover
because the complexity of
life's creation and growth
and death is way
beyond the comprehension
of our tiny minds.
The universe will not
fit in our heads as much
as we want to try to do that.
We are too slow and too tiny.
The universe is infinite.
Life here on earth is infinite.
And we cannot grasp it
by cutting it into pieces
and saying we have
now understood it.
And that's what western
medicine tries to do.
The native shamans, you
go, "How does this work?"
"I don't know, not interested."
>> Noory: All they
know is it does work.
>> McAfee: It works.
Good enough for me.
But you have to be careful
as well because keep in mind,
we are the western world.
And we have destroyed
and violated
so many native cultures--
>> Noory: Yes, we have.
>> McAfee: -- that
nine times out of 10,
the information you
get is to screw us
up rather than to help us.
And it's difficult to
find that one person
that can see the honesty in
your eyes and the caring,
and the goodwill that you feel.
They will tell you the truth.
And this is a problem.
>> Noory: I think these
pharmaceutical companies might
have even bulldozed that
area if they had found
out what was going on.
>> McAfee: Entirely possible.
>> Noory: And just sequester it.
>> McAfee: You know, because
you don't want some simple plant
completely wiping out a trillion
dollars worth of your income--
>> Noory: Exactly, exactly.
Where will John McAfee
be not physically,
but I guess business wise
in the next five years?
>> McAfee: Well, you know, I'm
still working on my technology,
a company, Future Tense
and the privacy system.
I still-- I'm still madly in
love with natural medicines.
I believe that-- first
of all, there are few
if any modern day medicines
that are not plant-derived.
>> Noory: Exactly.
>> McAfee: Look at our most
common, aspirin, what is it?
Well, it's a bark of--
>> Noory: Little tree.
>> McAfee: Little tree
for heaven's sake.
Every single advance
in medicine comes not
from some scientists going, "I
think I understand the nature
of life and how to
fix this thing."
It comes from people
grabbing plants
and saying, "Why
does this work?"
And so--
>> Noory: Absolutely.
>> McAfee: -- I say
who cares why it works.
Let's just make the tea like
the natives do and drink it?
>> Noory: And do it, I've
been looking at turmeric
and its research, and
its anti-inflammatory
and anti-cancer properties.
>> McAfee: I'll tell you two
things that I have discovered
which are fairly miraculous.
One is called chaga--
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: -- which is
a parasite that grows
on birch trees in that
far, far north in Siberia,
miraculous for immune
system issues, unbelievable.
The other is the thing
called velvet antler.
>> Noory: I've not
heard of that.
>> McAfee: OK, elk
antler velvet.
And so here's one of the
major problems we have
with natural medicines.
In western science, we can take
a compound and write the formula
and we can all duplicate it.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: But you go to some
shaman in the Northern Siberia
and he says, "Well, elk antler."
And so you get some--
buy some elk antler
at the local store
and it doesn't work.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: OK, what
he neglects to tell you
which he thinks any idiot would
know is what you can only do it
during the growth stage
when there's velvet.
Because obviously after
that, it's just dead antler.
>> Noory: That's just
the thought, yeah.
>> McAfee: And so people
will take elk antler
which is totally useless
because it's a mixture of carbon
and calcium and a few other
things which you can go
down to the vitamin
store and get.
But it doesn't do anything.
And so they go, "Well,
this stuff doesn't work?"
But you take the antler at the
stage where it is full of growth
and all the nutrients
are coming in.
It's a different substance.
>> Noory: You have
to know that stuff.
>> McAfee: Totally miraculous.
>> Noory: So it sounds like
you might form some kind
of natural
supplement business --
>> McAfee: I have a
partner in Canada,
and we're still using
the Quorum X label.
I can't use my antibiotics
anymore.
But I'm still researching
the world over to find things
that people have
not yet discovered.
Or usually if a shaman
or a medicine man
in the wilderness
goes, "This works."
Well, it does but you
don't know the full story
yet, like the elk antler.
So people research things and
say, "Well, it's useless."
Well, maybe you don't
have all the facts yet.
>> Noory: What's your passion?
>> McAfee: Anything
which is mysterious,
anything which is new.
And to me, anything
new is exciting.
Whether it's a piece of
knowledge or a new friendship
or a new language, or a
new culture, a new custom,
a new religion, it's
all exciting to me.
>> Noory: When you
first came back
to the United States,
how happy were you?
>> McAfee: Well,
I was pretty happy
to still be alive quite frankly.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> McAfee: Happy to be out
of the Guatemalan jail,
and happy to be out
of the clutches
of a very corrupt
and cruel government.
>> Noory: And you have a
close net of friends here?
>> McAfee: I do, I have
always made friends easily.
And I adore people,
this is the fact.
>> Noory: Well, you know,
I know when you were
on Coast to Coast with me.
I had tremendous
response after that.
I mean, we beamed you
out to 570 radio stations.
But I mean, they just
loved your attitude
about life and stuff like that.
>> McAfee: You know,
I love life, George.
I think we all would love life
if we opened our hearts
and arms to it.
>> Noory: Ever have a bad day?
>> McAfee: Well, yeah, if I
look at it from one angle.
But looking out after the fact,
there was always either an
educational day or a day full
of adventure or excitement.
>> Noory: What's your
health regimen like?
What you do?
>> McAfee: You know, I
hate to say this also--
>> Noory: 'Cause,
how old are you?
>> McAfee: I'm 68.
>> Noory: And you look 50.
>> McAfee: I thank
you very much.
>> Noory: Maybe a little less.
>> McAfee: Well yeah, I don't
know what that could be from.
I don't have a dietary regimen.
I think that what we eat is
of crucial importance
to our health.
>> Noory: Yes.
>> McAfee: There are basically
three things what we eat,
how we sleep, and
what is our environment?
You know, if you're working in
a coal factory, without a mask
or a filter, you're going to
be sick no matter what you do.
If you dodn't eat the
right foods, you're going
to be sick no matter
where you live.
And if you don't sleep, you're
just going to be sick, period.
But the key is what do you eat?
Do you eat vegetarian
or animal products or--
>> Noory: And who do you trust?
>> McAfee: And who do you trust?
Well, here's the issue.
You can only trust one
person, and that's yourself.
>> Noory: Good point.
>> McAfee: And I think most
people don't pay attention
to themselves.
They don't pay attention
to their body.
So I don't have any regimen.
I listen to my body.
And if my body wants a
hot dog, I eat a hot dog.
It doesn't last one for
that very often by the way--
>> Noory: Well, I'm
the same way.
>> McAfee: OK--
>> Noory: Nothing like
a nice Chicago style hot dog.
>> McAfee: That's right,
but I listen to my body.
And sometimes, it will-- it
says, "I want salad," you know,
and for three days, I'll
eat nothing but salads.
I don't know why.
>> Noory: Do you
supplement yourself?
>> McAfee: Not often, I found
that taking vitamins
frequently upsets my stomach.
>> Noory: OK.
>> McAfee: OK, which tells me
that maybe I don't
need these things.
The body is a very--
>> Noory: The body tells you.
>> McAfee: Your body is
an intelligent organism.
You know, we listen
to our brains.
Much, much, too much.
And, you know, our brains
and our thoughts are designed
for one thing only,
to navigate the world.
How do I get from
here back to my car?
How do I get my car
back to my house?
How do I balance my checkbook?
Instead, we use it to
try to reason things
that we have no business
reasoning.
What should we eat?
Shut the brain down on that one.
Listen to the body,
it will tell you.
>> Noory: If a genie gave
John McAfee one wish,
what would that be?
>> McAfee: My Lord.
>> Noory: One wish.
>> McAfee: You know, I
would have said 15 years ago
eternal life.
But I think that that
would become a curse
of the highest order.
>> Noory: A highlander.
>> McAfee: You're right, it
would simply be a curse.
You know, I don't know anymore.
I don't have wishes.
I'm happy just to wake up the
next day and still be breathing
and alive and capable of
communing and smiling.
This is what life is.
It should be about
laughter and friendship
and smiles and goodwill.
>> Noory: I wake up in the
morning and go, "Got through,
got through the night."
>> McAfee: Me too.
>> Noory: Another day.
>> McAfee: I'm still breathing--
success, so that's it.
>> Noory: You enjoy working?
>> McAfee: I love to work.
>> Noory: It's fun.
>> McAfee: I love it.
>> Noory: Same with me.
Like I've done all my life--
>> McAfee: You can have--
you have the charisma
and the energy,
and the passion that's
necessary for your job.
So I know you love this.
>> Noory: If you could change
one thing on this planet
as we wrap this up, one
thing, what would that be?
>> McAfee: I would remove
fear from the formula.
Because without fear, I
think everything else would--
all the ugliness would
drop away.
If you were not afraid
of your enemy
or the person you think is your
enemy, if you weren't fearful
of losing your job, losing
your wife, losing your comfort,
you would open up more to life.
>> Noory: That is so true.
>> McAfee: Instead of
being afraid of someone
who is dressed strangely
wearing a turban
and speaks a foreign language,
you would open up to them
and go, "Wow, where
did you come from?
I've never seen anything
like you.
Tell me about yourself."
Instead we go, uh--
>> Noory: And you know
what, they eat, they cry,
they sleep just like we do.
>> McAfee: They have the
same things, the same things,
they love, they hope,
they dream,
they have ambition,
they have grace.
And they also have
our negatives,
fear and envy and all anger.
And so knowing that,
we should be gentle
and we should be welcoming,
and we should hug and soothe.
Instead we go, "Oh, you're --
something wrong with you.
You know, you need to-- "
>> Noory: I think
wars should be fought
by the politicians who star
them. Put them in a room.
>> McAfee: I do too.
Give them whatever weapon
they want.
>> Noory: There would be no war.
>> McAfee: In fact,
we should make it--
we should make a
sport out of that.
If we want entertainment I'm
saying, we've made entertainment
out of the wrong things.
Well, take our leaders, put
them in a big arena, you know,
and we get to pay, you
know, 10 dollars to watch.
Now that would be entertainment.
>> Noory: John McAfee, thank you
so much for being on the show.
>> McAfee: Thank you, George.
I'm happy to be here.
>> Noory: John McAfee,
our guest on Beyond Belief
and I'll see you on our next
edition of Beyond Belief.
[ Music ]